So let's connect Angular to our new back-end or to our updated back-end. We are fetching posts in post
list component here with get posts and therefore, we have to go to the service, to this getPost method
and work on that. Here
on this URL,
we should attach our query parameters. For that, I'll create a new constant here, name it queryParams, the name
is up to you and turn this into a template expression, we have
two back ticks. Important,
these are not single quotation marks,
these are back ticks,
that's a special Javascript feature which allows us to dynamically add values into a normal string.
So here I want to create my queryParams by first of all adding that question mark which separates the
other URL from my query parameters and then the query parameters I want to pass onto the back-
end.
And here we have to make sure we get the naming right,
if on the back-end, we are accepting page size and page, written exactly like this, then we should also
pass query parameters with these names,
so page size and page.
So back in the service here, I'm setting up page size which is equal to a value
I need to get here as an argument,
so there I want to get my postsPerPage, you can name this however you want and this will be a number
and I want to get my current page which will also be a number and now I will use postsPerPage here
and now that's a feature provided by this expression, by the template literal syntax here.
We can add a dollar sign and two curly braces
and in there, I add postsPerPage and then also the other parameter with an & sign
that's separating the pairs of query params.
Here we got page which is equal to,
again using that dynamic value injection here which is equal to the current page,
this argument we're getting here.
Now with that, we're constructing the query params, we now simply add them to the end of our URL plus query
params like this
and now we send an updated request.
This of course means that we need to send the right data from within our post list component.
So back to that post list component, here in getPosts, we should actually send this post per page,
so this public property we added here and as a second value,
well I want to start on page one, so I will simply send a one as a value here, whoops,
and that's a one this too much.
So now we got this post per page and one as our current page. This is now fetching the post for
page one
and if we go back to our application, we already see whatever we do here doesn't matter right now,
we already see we only get two posts here, even though we have three in total.
So we're getting there.
Of course we now need to also re-fetch posts if we change pagination,
so if we go to page two for example. I simply want to execute this line of code again but I actually
want to replace these values we pass as arguments with the values I get from my page data. To be precise,
I want to store that data in properties of my component.
So we got posts per page,
I also want to have my current page here which is one initially.
So now we can use that current page here in ngOnInit,
this current page and I can set it here in onChangedPage. This current page is page data,
so that argument we're getting
and there we have the page index,
just keep in mind we have to add one here because this index starts at zero
but on our back-end, we're working with one, two and so on,
so we're starting at one and you could change everything to start at zero
but I want to start or work with that one based index.
So that's the first part
but I also want to store my page size or posts per page property as it is in my component and that will
be page data and then page size as selected by the user in the dropdown.
And now that's updating the values, I of course now also want to use them here,
I'm already using this post per page and here,
I will use this current page.
And now with that if I save that and I go back, I can go to page two
and now we got that one post on page two and I can go back. And if I change this to five, we see them all, if I
change that to one,
we only see one post per page. And yes we can go through too many pages,
that's one issue we have
and we're also not displaying the right amount of posts here
and additionally, we of course also have the problem that if we delete a post here,
well then we would not update our pagination correctly or we would run into problems here,
I actually want to re-fetch posts when we do that.
So these are all things we'll work on in the next lectures.